# Migrating to 2.5

go_router v2.5 comes with a new, simplified way to provide a screen for each
route in your app. In versions prior to v2.5, the only way to do that was to
implement the `pageBuilder` function for each route, e.g.

```dart
GoRoute(
  path: '/',
  pageBuilder: (context, state) => MaterialPage<void>( // boilerplate
    key: state.pageKey, // boilerplate
    restorationId: state.pageKey.value, // boilerplate
    child: const Page1Page(), // useful code
  ), // boilerplate
),
```

This method came with a lot of boilerplate code if you were using the default
transitions provided with the `MaterialApp` (or `CupertinoApp`) since you were
forced to build up a `MaterialPage` (or `CupertinoPage`) for every route.
Furthermore, assuming you wanted to let go_router pick the key for each of your
pages instead of managing that yourself, you still had to manually pass the key
to each `MaterialPage` instance (or `CupertinoPage` instance). And finally, you
had to pass in a `restorationId` value by hand as well.

## builder instead of pageBuilder

In v2.5, if you want to let go_router pick the appropriate page-type based on
your app-type, i.e. `MaterialApp`, `CupertinoApp` or something else, and you
want to let go_router manage the keys and restoration IDs, you can use the
default implementation of the `pageBuilder` for each route and instead implement
the `builder` function:

```dart
GoRoute(
  path: '/',
  builder: (context, state) => const Page1Page(),  // just the useful code!
),
```

This code removes the boilerplate and gives you the default implementation of
the `pageBuilder` that you expect (in fact, it looks just like the `pageBuilder`
snippet above). You can continue to use the `pageBuilder` if you want to specify
the key or some other parameter to the page-type you're creating:

```dart
GoRoute(
  path: '/',
  pageBuilder: (context, state) => MaterialPage<void>(
    key: _myPage1Key,
    child: const Page1Screen(),
  ),
),
```

Likewise, if you want to [set a custom transition](/transitions), you can still
use the `pageBuilder` for that, too:

```dart
GoRoute(
  path: '/fade',
  pageBuilder: (context, state) => CustomTransitionPage<void>(
    key: state.pageKey,
    child: const ExampleTransitionsScreen(
      kind: 'fade',
      color: Colors.red,
    ),
    transitionsBuilder: (context, animation, secondaryAnimation, child) =>
        FadeTransition(opacity: animation, child: child),
  ),
),
```

However, I expect most people to use `builder` instead of `pageBuilder` most of
the time.

## Optional error builder

Another simplification in go_router v2.5 is that you're no longer required to
provide an `errorPageBuilder` function. Instead, go_router will automatically
give you a simple one based on the app-type you're using, e.g. `MaterialApp`,
`CupertinoApp` or something else. Of course, if you want a custom error screen,
you can continue to use `errorPageBuilder` or take advantage of the new
`errorBuilder` function instead:

```dart
final _router = GoRouter(
  routes: ...,
  errorBuilder: (context, state) => ErrorScreen(state.error!),
);
```

The `errorBuilder` takes advantage of the new default implementation of the
`errorPageBuilder` function that works just like the `pageBuilder`, although
you're free to use either.

## No transition at all

And finally, if you'd like to remove the transition from a route, there's a new
`NoTransitionPage` type that derives from the existing `CustomTransitionPage` to
handle the case of turning off transitions:

```dart
GoRoute(
  path: '/none',
  pageBuilder: (context, state) => NoTransitionPage<void>(
    key: state.pageKey,
    child: const ExampleTransitionsScreen(
      kind: 'none',
      color: Colors.white,
    ),
  ),
),
```

In fact, the `NoTransitionPage` is what you'll get in the case that your app
doesn't have a `MaterialApp` or a `CupertinoApp` in the widget tree, e.g. if
you're using `WidgetsApp`. You can [read more about custom
transitions](/transitions) for details.