# Navigator Integration

If you'd like to integrate with the built in `Navigator` widget, you can, as
shown in this snippet from the [navigator integration
example](https://github.com/csells/go_router/blob/master/example/lib/navigator_integration.dart):

```dart
Future<void> _addPerson(BuildContext context) async {
  final person = await Navigator.push<Person>(
    context,
    MaterialPageRoute(
      builder: (context) => NewPersonScreen(family: widget.family),
    ),
  );

  if (person != null) {
    setState(() => widget.family.people.add(person));
    context.goNamed('person', params: {
      'fid': widget.family.id,
      'pid': person.id,
    });
  }
}
```

This example shows how to use the `Navigator` widget to push a new page and
gather the result. It doesn't use the `GoRouter` but works just the way you'd
expect, e.g. it will create a new page on the stack of pages, show a Back button
in the `AppBar`, etc. To return results, use `Navigator.pop` as you normally
would:

```dart
ButtonBar(children: [
  TextButton(
    onPressed: () => Navigator.pop(context),
    child: const Text('Cancel'),
  ),
  ElevatedButton(
    onPressed: () {
      if (_formKey.currentState!.validate()) {
        final person = Person(
          id: 'p${widget.family.people.length + 1}',
          name: _nameController.text,
          age: int.parse(_ageController.text),
        );

        Navigator.pop(context, person);
      }
    },
    child: const Text('Create'),
  ),
]),
```

You can feel free to use `GoRouter` and `Navigator` together like this. However,
one thing that using `Navigator.push` in this way will not do is update the
browser's address bar. If you want that, you'll need to use `GoRouter.go` or
`GoRouter.push`. You'll notice, however, that neither `go` nor `push` provides
for waiting on results. That's because `GoRouter` is meant for use with deep and
dynamic linking, i.e. everything about a location in your app can be expressed
as a link. If you're calling `Navigator.push` and waiting on the results from
some random place in your app, that's not something that can be represented in a
link.

However, that doesn't mean that you can't use `GoRouter` to navigate to a page
that gathers user input; in fact, that's a common scenario that `GoRouter`
supports. Because the results of the navigation are not available to the caller
when using the `GoRouter`, the screen itself would be responsible for managing
what happens to the user input, e.g.

```dart
ButtonBar(children: [
  TextButton(
    onPressed: () =>
      // Navigator.pop(context) would work here, too
      context.goNamed('family', params: {'fid': widget.family.id}),
    child: const Text('Cancel'),
  ),
  ElevatedButton(
    onPressed: () {
      if (_formKey.currentState!.validate()) {
        final person = Person(
          id: 'p${widget.family.people.length + 1}',
          name: _nameController.text,
          age: int.parse(_ageController.text),
        );

        widget.family.people.add(person);

        context.goNamed('person', params: {
          'fid': widget.family.id,
          'pid': person.id,
        });
      }
    },
    child: const Text('Create'),
  ),
]),
```

With this implementation, you can set up a sub-route to provide a page to add a
new person:

```dart
GoRoute(
  name: 'home',
  path: '/',
  builder: ...,
  routes: [
    GoRoute(
      name: 'family',
      path: 'family/:fid',
      builder: ...,
      routes: [
        GoRoute(
          name: 'person',
          path: 'person/:pid',
          builder: ...,
        ),
        GoRoute(
          name: 'new-person',
          path: 'new-person',
          builder: (context, state) {
            final family = Families.family(state.params['fid']!);
            return NewPersonScreen(family: family);
          },
        ),
      ],
    ),
  ],
),
```

And now your `_addPerson` method would look like this:

```dart
void _addPerson(BuildContext context) {
  context.goNamed('new-person', params: {'fid': widget.family.id});
}
```

And finally, when you're making changes to the data in your app that appears in
more than one place, e.g. updating the list of `Person` objects in a `Family` on
one page while also showing a list of those `Person` objects on another page,
you'll want to ensure that the widgets in your app can be rebuilt when the state
they depend on changes. For this, I recommend a state management solution like
[provider](https://pub.dev/packages/provider).

There's no reason not to use the `Navigator` in your app when you're using the
`GoRouter`, but you'll want to be careful how you manage your app's state and
the implications of using `Navigator` vs. `GoRouter` for navigation.